hello everyone welcome to another
episode of the perspective podcast my
guest today is sam dunning
sam is the co-owner and sales director
of web choice uk an award-winning
digital marketing agency that provides
web development and
seo services sam welcome to the show
hey manny good good to be here man
thanks very much for having me on
appreciate it
so sam before we jump into this tell us
a bit more about your background the
story
and how you got into what you do today
yeah that's there's there's a bit to it
so i'll try and give you the less boring
version
so as as i know i've bored a lot of
people on podcasts in the past but
i started in retail so i used to
sell cameras so i worked for a little
camera shop well
at the time it was quite a big change
called jessups in the uk
and basically we saw things like cameras
slrs
memory cards camera cases all that
anything to do with the camera you could
find at jessups so this was one of the
first jobs when i was
back about 18 so i'm 30 now so it's
about 12 years ago
and it to be to be fair i didn't really
enjoy it
so it was one of those jobs i needed a
job at the time because i just finished
college i needed to turn some money
so i started doing it and there was no
real incentive
so it was we had to we were our manager
was telling us to kind of sell as many
cameras
as many add-ons so as many memory cards
cases
insurance plans for these cameras but
there was no real drive because there
was no commission plan there was no
bonus structure
the manager was a bit of a dick the
people i was working with
weren't necessarily i said a couple
friends and i just didn't really like
dealing with people face to face
and um that manager went and then we got
an even worse manager and i just like
i'm not really motivated to do this
anymore
my cousin came over to me and said sam
there's a job going at this web company
and we do websites and digital marketing
i said sounds great he said do you want
an interview
i can get you one tomorrow i said yeah
so the next day
he gets me in for this interview with
the owner at the time felix
and asked me a few questions
i said look i've got a little bit of a
sales experience i've got a little bit
of experience doing people
the next day he offers me the job i quit
my camera shop job on the spot
and start doing websites so um
i start out as kind of a project manager
stroke sales guy because it was very
very small at the time
just three of us really in a small team
and
yeah one one of these funny stories i've
shared on a few podcasts is i um one of
the first sales i did
was i basically sold the equivalent of
linkedin for about 500 pounds
because i had no idea what i was doing
on the phone we had a lead come in
and they're asking me all these
questions they're saying yeah we need a
website similar to linkedin
similar to zing which is like the german
equivalent of linkedin
and um i basically said yes to every
question they asked me
and somehow blacked my way through to it
undersold
this website by the most i could have
undersold it and
fortunately the client at the time
didn't carry through that project and we
managed to
ship them off onto a smaller site so it
didn't work out badly but
yeah years have gone by and over time
i've worked on a
different marketing company i've worked
for a call center
so learning learning more about sales
learning more about marketing
and then a couple years back i came back
to webchoice
as a sales manager and eventually worked
my way up to becoming one of the owners
with two other chaps
and essentially i just really enjoy
growing businesses
um i enjoy this working for digital
marketing companies it gives
freedom so i can work remotely when i
want but it's
it's enjoyable because the when you when
a project goes well
you actually see the results ie clients
get more leads or they get more sales
or whatever their end goal is so it's
tangible roi although the product itself
digital marketing is not tangible
um so yes it's good fun man that's
that's a brief snapshot but feel free to
ask questions if you've got any
yeah so let's talk about websites many
people say today like with the rise of
social media that if you are on social
media
you don't need to have a website at all
and i disagree with that because
like having a website has its advantages
too so i would love to hear your
thoughts on that as an expert
do you think that every business needs
to have a website and why
i don't think every business needs to
have a website i think businesses
probably should have a website
as funny enough i posted something like
this on linkedin yesterday
so linkedin social media whatever
channel it is can be great
i mean take our business for example
linkedin
generates is is about the third best
performing channel for us in terms of
generating leads
and generating revenue however social
media is is basically being on rented
land
so they could change the algorithm they
can change the goal posts
they can change exactly how it works any
given stage
i mean linkedin probably won't because
that would annoy a heck of a lot of
people if they changed everything
tomorrow
and i'm sure everyone would be going mad
but they can because they own it we
don't and the same with instagram the
same with facebook the same with
pinterest the same with tiktok they
could change anything tomorrow if they
wanted to at the drop of a hat
so having platforms that you own i.e
it could be your website it's beneficial
because that's something that's fully
yours
if you if you build it yourself or build
it with a company um
aka if you're driving traffic to that
site
they can it can be a great way to which
we can talk about in
a minute to kind of earn people's trust
to
give people a good idea of what you do
and to generate inbound opportunities
aka inbound leads or to sell your stuff
if you're and you know what i like about
websites is that
for example if there's some information
that you don't want people to miss and
if you post it on social media it will
die after a week or two
and you have to pin it somehow so people
always see it
but when you have your website like and
you feature all the required
information that you need always people
to see so
it won't be like dying after a few weeks
so that's one of the ways that
you can use websites too so also
when when someone like doesn't have a
big audience
um on social media so they can't like
drive
traffic to their websites through social
media seo can be a great way to drive
that traffic
what are the key steps you think people
need to follow to get started with seo
and generate traffic and sales
great question so seo is something we're
passionate about
something i'm personally passionate
about is such a great way
as a long-term strategy much like
building a following on linkedin
it's um it's a long term game so
unfortunately it's not something you can
click your fingers and overnight you're
going to be page one for all the search
terms you can get tons of traffic tons
of leads
tons of sales so it does need a
thoughtful strategy
so there are a few main elements to
creating a winning seo strategy
as it were first and foremost is getting
the foundation right
so before you even think about kind of
tinkering with your website tinkering
with the content the technical markup or
trying to do off-site work you really
want to do the research properly
and there's a number of tools you can do
use to use the research it could be
semrush it could be google keyword
planner
you could utilize google search console
and really you want to think about
firstly what are the main products or
the main services
i want to be selling so let's say
you provide i don't know let's say
you're you're i don't know
sales management consultant so you might
want to be on page one of you for
if someone's searching sales management
consultancy if someone's searching like
best sales trainers
if someone's searching like high
performance sales training so those
might be some of the main services that
you actually want to get
leads for so you've got to think about
what whether that's a product whether
it's a service
and then you can use these kind of tools
or if you employ a company they can use
these tools to
work out the search terms work out if
they're getting search volume
but one of the things to consider is
that
not every some search terms may be
flooded so they may be highly
competitive
there may be companies that are spending
thousands if not millions on them per
month
so they might not be worth going for so
you may want to look at kind of what's
called longer tail search terms
to give you a quick idea without boring
you too much a longer tail search term
if we were a sales trainer might be best
sales trainer in
the uk or best sound stranger in the usa
so adding extra
terms to the keyword and yeah it's
essentially about looking at
search terms that are relevant um that
have high intent
so if someone's looking at it they're
probably going to need your services
picking the ones that are relevant to
what you offer and then once you've got
a list of search terms you want to hone
in on there's a couple things you need
to do
on your website so we need to look at an
on-site strategy because there's two
main elements to seo right there's
on-site seo and there's offset seo
everything you do on your website
everything you do off your website and
feel free to jump in if i'm moving too
fast so
on-site you need to look at
the technical side of things so once
we've got our search terms we want to
target
technically we need to look make sure
that there's because google recently
um released something called cool web
vitals and it's really important your
website hits a number of
things to help it rank better so that
one of those things includes page speed
so this is something i ramble on about a
lot your website needs to load lightning
fast because if it's slow
it's really going to affect the customer
experience and if no one no one likes a
slow site
if if they click your listing and google
and it takes 10 seconds to load they're
going to head to a competitor that gives
them a more enjoyable experience
so things like that it's things like
making sure the
met what's called the technical markup
so things like meta titles meta
descriptions which is the actual listing
that you see in google
are on par with the search terms that
you've agreed on
making sure all other elements are page
titles h1 tags etc
now getting into the content google
loves fresh content it loves relevant
content
it loves informative content that's
really going to help the user and so do
people
ultimately if you're searching for
something let's say bring it back to the
sales training thing if you
you search for sales trainer and you
click on a page that
doesn't really help you out so it
doesn't say kind of
here's why we're the best sales trainer
here's some useful resources like some
blogs some videos some articles some
infographics
if it just gives a couple lines of text
and asks you to get in touch
it's not really building confidence that
they're a useful resource
so making sure that your information
that you have dedicated information
pages for your key services
that are linked to your search terms and
making sure those information pages are
really relevant
useful and helpful resources so if
someone lands on that content page
they're really encouraged to learn more
about what you offer and then click
through learn a bit more
about your company and eventually get in
touch with you
so request a quote or yeah that's a
great point
because you know i noticed like some
people when it comes to
seo and even i noticed this for people
who use hashtags on instagram
so they use keywords that attracts their
competition to them instead of
attracting their customers
they use keywords that their competition
is searching for
for example if i'm selling facebook
advertising services
like people start using keywords like
uh for example how to solve this
specific problem when it comes to
facebook advertising
which which means like when when the
customer is searching for facebook
advertising services they don't know
about those details they won't search
about it you are attracting your
competition to you because your
competition who's doing facebook ads
is searching for these keywords and they
keep like attracting
the wrong type of people to their
websites or even on instagram when they
use hashtags
yeah no that's that's exactly right it's
got to be it's got to be relevant to
what you do
um and if for example bringing it back
to the trainer
side of things if you did decide best
sales training was one of your search
terms you might want to do a page purely
devoted to that and maybe have some
useful videos
maybe have some useful questions and
answers maybe have some useful
infographics and just really help the
user
get a feel for what you can offer how
you can help them as much detail
and ultimately if you can produce better
content in your competition over time
that's going to pay off and get you more
traffic
and once you've optimized your site in
terms of the technical side of things in
terms of the content
really providing value really making
sure it's relevant to the search terms
you're going for and also helping your
customers enjoy
their experience on your website then
you can look at the off-site
strategy so this might be things like
creating articles creating press
releases
creating um blogs posting our
infographics posting out
animated videos whatever this content is
and then distributing it onto trusted
websites
that perhaps related to your industry
and building what's called backlinks
that send users back to your site which
will send signals to google
which over time is going to build up
your website's domain authority
build up your link juice and also build
up your organic positionings
in google over time when done
consistently when done over time
yeah and that's what's going to get you
the web traffic that's what's going to
get you those page 1 results
and most importantly get you the inbound
leads or the sales
depending on what you're looking to do
so that's a quick snapshot
and when it comes to building a
successful website but in terms of
conversion like getting people to
convert
are there any key points you focus on to
have like
more conversions for example the
simplicity of the website the speed and
those stuff
yeah yeah yeah so kind of starting from
the ground up
definitely fast so try and get your
website speed under two seconds
and you can use tools like google page
speed insights not only will that tell
you how quickly your website is
page speed insights will give you
actionable tips so if you need to like
reduce image sizes reduce videos
reduce things like javascript and stuff
like that to speed up the page it gives
you actual tips
so that's something to consider but
before even someone's going to look at
your website your
your design your content it needs to be
fast likewise before they properly look
at your website it needs to
not only be mobile responsive but
depending on your traffic a lot of
websites now should be mobile first
because search terms typically in most
countries mobile outweighs desktop
so not only having a site that looks
okay on mobile but a site that looks
awesome on mobile
really provides an enjoyable experience
so thinking about a mobile first design
although it's not always applicable for
some audiences a responsive site is fine
because some more traditional businesses
have more desktop searches
but yeah making sure it works great
mobile tablet pc bumping straight into
the site so the first thing people are
going to see on your home page or
landing page is probably a big heading
um so make sure your site passes
something called the grunt test
so if someone stuck your website right
now in front of a caveman sitting in a
cave in caveman times
could this caveman look at your homepage
and within three seconds grunt
exactly what you do exactly how you help
people and exactly how to get in touch
with you
so let's say they land on web choices
site hopefully they'd know
we do websites and seo we help
businesses grow
and they can get a free quote straight
away the first headline before you need
to scroll if your website does not pass
that grunt test it needs work
moving on it needs to design wise
do you want to kind of craft your design
not around what you like
but ultimately around what your
customers like otherwise you're missing
opportunities if you're designing it
around what you personally
prefer then you're not getting the best
results you can so how can you do that
if you've already got a client list then
you can reach out to them
so for example if you've got an email
list you can actually send them surveys
so you can actually say let's say you've
got a website design already you could
run a quick survey saying look what you
like about this design
on a scale of one to five how easy is it
to navigate how does it stack up against
our competition
how easy was it to find what you were
looking for and what areas would you
improve
um so that kind of data from your
existing customers will really give you
all the info you need on how you need to
craft
this design because remember the website
is not for you it's for your prospective
ideal clients
and then utilizing these things we've
talked about in the seo so crafting the
design around
your clients needs in terms of look and
feel making sure it's got all the useful
resources there so whether that's
specific information pages on services
and useful resources whether that's a
blog a video page and so on
and building trust so typically
business business to business sites want
to kind of showcase their services
showcase their work give examples and
then drive people to
request a quote book a call get in touch
whatever that call to action is
so have call to actions consistently
through your website
so it's not difficult for people to get
in touch with you so it's really really
easy no matter what page someone's on to
either give you a call
fill out a quote form or email you
direct or even live chat it's just
giving people the flexibility
to get in touch with you on their
preferred contact channel
and then to really build up the trust
you can leverage social proof
on your website so leveraging things
like testimonials
case studies reviews accreditations
uh perhaps um portfolio pieces so all
these little things
you can just build up people's trust
when they're scrolling through your
website for your different pages
and having those call-to-actions so
people can easily contact you or call
you or
get in touch with you are just going to
help you enjoy more business from your
website
yeah and uh you know let me ask you my
favorite question when it comes to sales
i always ask this question to every
agency owners
so the agency world is like getting too
crowded even freelancers are starting to
position themselves as agencies
like they are creating logos websites
and they start like to position
themselves as agencies
is there any specific approaches you are
taking as a sales director
or as a sales team to stand out and be
able to sell your services
great question great question um is
there's a few ways you can do it i mean
you've got to be
you've got to have some kind of
different offering or
you've got to stand out in some way
because like you say take take our
agency for example websites seo digital
marketing
every man in his dog is trying to sell a
website so you've got to break through
the noise and i'm sure
it's the same for you mano in terms of
managing people's socials and managing
facebook ads there's tons of people
doing it every man and his dog claims to
be a digital marketer so
i mean some of the ways i've had success
is
practicing what you preach so if you're
gonna sell a service to people
you better make damn sure you're good at
yourself yeah um
so that's basics i shouldn't need to say
that but for example with seo
the first thing we usually ask us is
have you got page one rankings what you
do so we should have that and likewise
if you're offering something
but ways you can break through the noise
and some some ways that are going to be
more cost effective let's say you're a
startup and you don't have much budget
and you might not be able to pump into
seo or paid ads are
thinking about setting up a personal
brand so whether that's
linkedin if your customers are in the
business world and they hang out on
linkedin so creating content that's
going to provide you some tips helpful
information
and kind of give people confidence in
what you do linkedin is something we've
had great success with
perhaps you create a podcast like you
and i are doing right now so you you
prove yourself over time to be a useful
resource and again you're standing out
from
from most companies because most
companies or businesses won't take the
time to
create a podcast that builds value
builds trust and shares free tips
um or maybe you create an email letter a
newsletter kind of weekly
free advice free resources so just
thinking of ways that you can
provide useful information so every time
people start to
know that realize that you know what
you're talking about you break through
the mold
and you're giving them useful resources
when because they keep seeing you in
their feed or they keep seeing an email
or videos whatever channel this is
over time you're the one that when they
need help you're going to be the
guy or the girl that they come to yeah
yeah i really love that
and it's it's really simple it just
requires like consistent work to
be able to accomplish that so yeah
before we wrap up you recently
launched a new linkedin growth guide
which was amazing
so tell us a bit more about it and where
can people find it
hey i appreciate that dude yeah so i did
just launch a guide actually because
like you say we
we were assessing our sales revenue for
the last three year
for the last year and realized that
linkedin was our third best performing
so we did
over six figures in it but i'm not a
linkedin guru i'm not a linkedin expert
i don't know that much about linkedin
i've just been
messing around with it for the last
couple years and the strategy that i've
managed to put together has
helped us it bring on board a heck of a
lot of inbound leads over time
so through my own trial and error my own
pain i've built this guide
to kind of save people time so you can
find that at linkedinbook.com that's
linkedinbook.com
it's cheap it costs less than a coffee
and a cookie
so you can grab one of those pretty
nicely um
but yeah apart apart from that if you
want to connect with me on linkedin
it's sam dunning i share daily digital
marketing tips
and if your company of your business is
frustrated
or you're tired of hunting for clients
constantly
and you want more inbound opportunities
through your website or perhaps you're
annoyed that other companies are
enjoying your business from google then
give us a shout is webchoiceuk.com
awesome sam thank you so much for being
on the show
really appreciate it dude thanks for
having me